.bd B 3
.TH ap6x3 1 "Dec 07, 2012" "TI Tools" "TI Code Generation Tools"
.SH NAME
ap6x3 - Assembly Optimizer Parser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ap6x3
[
.I options
] [
.I file(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The assembly optimizer allows you to write assembly code without being concerned with the pipeline structure of the 'C6x or assigning registers.  It accepts 
.I linear assembly code
, which is assembly code that may have had register-allocation performed and is unscheduled.  The assembly optimizer assigns registers and uses loop optimizations to turn linear assembly into highly parallel assembly.

.SH ABOUT THE ASSEMBLY OPTIMIZER

If you are not satisfied with the performance of your C code after you have used all of the C optimizations that are available, you can use the assembly optimizer to make it easier to write assembly code for the 'C6x.

The assembly optimizer performs several tasks including the following:

- Schedules instructions to maximize performance using the instruction level parallelism of the 'C6x

- Ensures that the instructions conform to the 'C6x latency requirements

- Allocates registers for your source code

Like the C compiler, the assembly optimizer performs software pipelining.  
.I Software
pipelining
is a technique used to schedule instructions from a loop so that multiple
iterations of the loop execute in parallel.  The code generation tools attempt to software
pipeline your code with inputs from you and with information that it gathers from your program.
This tool should be invoked via the shell (cl).  See the shell documentation for information on shell options.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.TP
Copyright (c) 2012, Texas Instruments, Inc.
