.bd B 3
.TH lnk6x 1 "Dec 07, 2012" "TI Tools" "TI Code Generation Tools"
.SH NAME
lnk6x - ELF Linker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lnk6x
[
.I options
] [
.I file(s)
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ELF Linker creates executable modules by combining ELF object files.  For more information on using the linker, see the 
.B Assembly Language Tools User's Guide

.SH OPTIONS
The following options are accepted by this tool:
.SS Command File Preprocessing Options:
.SS
.TP
--define=name=value
Pre-define preprocessor macro _name_ to _value_
.TP
--disable_pp
This disables preprocessing of linker command files.
.TP
--undefine=name
Undefine preprocessor macro _name_
.SS Diagnostics Options:
.SS
.TP
--diag_error=id
Treat diagnostic <id> as error
.TP
--diag_remark=id
Treat diagnostic <id> as remark
.TP
--diag_suppress=id
Suppress diagnostic <id>
.TP
--diag_warning=id
Treat diagnostic <id> as warning
.TP
--display_error_number
Emit diagnostic identifier numbers
.TP
--issue_remarks
Issue remarks
.TP
--no_demangle
Don't demangle symbol names in diagnostics
.TP
--no_warnings
Suppress warnings
.TP
-pdew
Treat warnings as errors
.TP
--set_error_limit=count
Set error limit to <count>
.TP
--verbose_diagnostics
Verbose diagnostics
.TP
-w
Warn if an unspecified output section is created
.SS File Search Path Options:
.SS
.TP
--disable_auto_rts
Disable automatic RTS selection
.TP
-i=dir
Alter the library-search algorithm to look in dir before looking in the default location.  This option must appear before the -l option.
.TP
-l=file
Include library file or command file as input
.TP
-priority
Search libraries in priority order
.TP
-x
Reread libraries; resolve backward references
.SS Linker Output Options:
.SS
.TP
-a
Produce absolute executable object file (default)
.TP
-abs
Produce absolute listing file
.TP
-m=file
Produce a listing of all input and output sections into <file>.
.TP
--mapfile_contents=attribute
Enable the display of <attribute> or disable with no<attribute> in the linker generated map file.  Multiple attributes can be specified by separating them with commas (e.g. --mapfile_contents=sections,nosymbols).  Type --mapfile_contents=help for a list of attributes.
.TP
-o=file
Full filename of the output file.
.TP
-r
Produce a relocatable output module
.TP
--rom
This option allows the creation of ROM object module
.TP
-xml_link_info=file
Produce a detailed link information data-base into the file named <file>.
.SS Symbol Management Options:
.SS
.TP
-b
Disable type merging in symbolic debugging information.
.TP
-e=symbol
Specify program entry point for the output module
.TP
-g=symbol
Don't make global symbol static if -h is specified
.TP
--globalize=pattern
The option '--localize=l_pattern' makes the symbols matching the l_pattern hidden. The '--globalilze=g_pattern' option excludes symbols matching g_pattern from symbol localization provided g_pattern is more restrictive than l_pattern. 
.TP
-h
Make all global symbols static
.TP
--hide=pattern
Hide the symbols matching the pattern by changing the name to empty string
.TP
--localize=pattern
Given a symbol name pattern, make all the symbols matching this pattern local
.TP
--retain=sym_or_scn_spec
When --unused_section_elimination is enabled, the ELF linker does not include a section in the final link if it is not needed in the executable to resolve references. This option can be used to tell the linker to retain a list of sections that would otherwise be not retained. This option accepts the wild cards '*' and '?' and when wild cards are used, the argument should be in quotes. The following option parameters are accepted:

--retain=symbol_spec retains sections that define symbol matching the argument. For ex, --retain='init*' retains sections that define symbols that start with 'init'. User may not specify --retain='*'.

--retain=file_spec(scn_spec [,scn_spec ...]) retains sections matching scn_spec(s) from files matching file_spec. For ex, the argument '*(.initvec)' causes the linker to retain .initvec sections from all input files.

NOTE: User can specify --retain='*(*)' to retain all the sections from all the input object files. Note that this does not prevent sections from library members from being optimized out. If you want to totally disable unused section elimination, please use --unused_section_elimination=off.

--retain=ar_spec<mem_spec, [mem_spec ...]>(scn_spec, [scn_spec ...]) retains sections matching scn_spec(s) from members matching mem_spec(s) from archive files matching ar_spec. For ex, rts32eabi.lib<printf.obj>(.text) causes the linker to retain .text section from printf.obj in rts32eabi.lib. If the library is specified with -l option (-lrts32eabi.lib) the library search path is used to search the library. User may not specify '*<*>(*)'. 
.TP
-s
Strip symbol table and line number entries
.TP
-scanlibs
Check whether symbol definitions that are pulled into the link are duplicated in any of the libraries included in the build.  This information is typically ignored as the linker will pull in the first definition it encounters.
.TP
--symbol_map=refname=defname
Symbol mapping allows a symbol reference to be resolved by a symbol with different name. Symbol mapping allows functions to be overridden with alternate definitions. This feature can be used to patch in alternate implementations, which provide patches (bug fixes) or alternate functionality. For example, the option --symbol_map='foo=foo_patch' makes the linker resolve any references to foo by the definition foo_patch.
.TP
-u=sym
Add <sym> to symbol table as an unresolved symbol
.TP
--unhide=pattern
The option --hide=hide_pattern makes the symbols matching the hide_pattern hidden. The --unhide=unhide_pattern option excludes symbols matching unhide_pattern from symbol hiding provided unhide_pattern is more restrictive than hide_pattern. 
.SS Runtime Environment Options:
.SS
.TP
--args=size
Set C argc/argv memory size
.TP
-c
Link using ROM autoinitialization model
.TP
-cr
Link using RAM autoinitialization model
.TP
-f=value
Set the default fill value for filling holes in output sections.
.TP
--heap=size
Specify the maximum heap size for C/C++ dynamic memory allocation. [Same as -heap]
.TP
-heap=size
Specify the maximum heap size for C/C++ dynamic memory allocation. [Same as --heap]
.TP
-stack=size
Set C system stack size [Same as --stack]
.TP
--stack=size
Set C system stack size [Same as -stack]
.TP
--trampolines[=off,on]
Generate far call trampolines The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: on
.SS Linktime Optimization Options:
.SS
.TP
--cinit_compression[=compression_kind]
Specify the compression to apply to the c auto initialization data The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: rle
.TP
--compress_dwarf[=off,on]
Aggressively reduce the size of the DWARF information.  When this option used, the DWARF information is parsed and examined to look for and eliminate duplicate types, and builds a .debug_abbrev table for the whole program. The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: on
.TP
--copy_compression[=compression_kind]
Overlays can be managed by using linker generated copy tables. To save ROM space, the linker can compress the data copied by copy tables. The compressed data is decompressed during copy. The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: rle
.TP
--unused_section_elimination[=off,on]
In order to minimize memory use, the linker does not include a section that is not needed to resolve any references in the final executable. --unused_section_elimination=off can be used to disable this optimization. The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: on
.SS Miscellaneous Options:
.SS
.TP
-help
Display usage information.  Followed by another option, will display detailed information on that option. [Same as --help]
.TP
--help
Display usage information.  Followed by another option, will display detailed information on that option. [Same as -help]
.TP
-j
Disable conditional linking; ignore all .clink directives.
.TP
--minimize_trampolines[=off,postorder]
This option attempts to place sections so as to minimize the number of far call trampolines required, possibly at the expense of optimal memory packing. The argument selects a heuristic to use. The 'postorder' heuristic attempts to place functions before their callers so that the PC-relative offset is known when the caller is placed. The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: postorder
.TP
--preferred_order=function
Insert a function into the preferred function order list for placement.  Functions that are close to each other in the preferred function order list will tend to be placed close together (increase program locality between them).  Static functions of the same name can be distinguished from each other by prefixing the function name with the path and file in which the function is defined followed by a ':' character to delimit the beginning of the function name.
.TP
--strict_compatibility[=off,on]
Strict compatibility checking The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: on
.TP
--trampoline_min_spacing=size
When trampoline reservations are spaced more closely than this limit, try to make them adjacent.  A higher value minimizes fragmentation, but may result in more trampolines. A lower value may reduce trampolines, at the expense of fragmentation and linker running time.  Specifying 0 for this option disables coalescing.  The default is 16K.
.TP
--zero_init[=off,on]
This option indicates that the linker should generate compressed cinit table records that zero initializes ELF uninitialized sections during boot. This option is ignored if --rom_model option is not specified. The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: on
.SS Dynamic Linking Support Options:
.SS
.TP
--dsbt_index=index
The Data Segment Base Table (DSBT) contains the Data Page (DP) pointer for each component (executable or shared object) in a dynamic linking system.  A dynamic component uses a unique index to access its DP value. This index can be allocated at run time by the dynamic loader or can be statically assigned via this option. The index value should be less than the DSBT size. 
.TP
--dsbt_size=size
The Data Segment Base Table (DSBT) contains the Data Page (DP) pointer for each component (executable or shared object) in a dynamic linking system. Each dynamic component in the system has an entry in the DSBT. This option specifies the size of the DSBT, and should be no less than the number of dynamic components in the system.
.TP
--dynamic[=exe,lib]
Generate a dynamic executable or a dynamic library for use in an application that is dynamically linked and relocated at load time The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: exe
.TP
--export=sym
This option makes the specified global symbol an exported definition. Global symbols that are given restricted (hidden) visibility by source code annotations will not be exported by this option.
.TP
--fini=sym
This option sets the entry point symbol for finalization code. The dynamic loader calls the finalization code when it unloads a dynamically loaded object. When this option is used, the linker generates the DT_FINI dynamic tag and sets it to the address of the symbol.
.TP
--forced_static_binding[=off,on]
Force all import references to bind during static linking. The argument to the option is optional, and if not specified it will default to: on
.TP
--import=sym
This option makes specified global symbol an imported references. Global symbols that are given restricted (hidden) visibility by source code annotations will not be imported by this option.
.TP
--init=sym
This option sets the entry point symbol for initialization code. The dynamic loader calls the initialization code when it loads a dynamically loaded object. When this option is used, the linker generates the DT_INIT dynamic tag and sets it to the address of the symbol.
.TP
--rpath=dir
The specified directory will be searched BEFORE the directories in LD_LIBRARY_PATH
.TP
--runpath=dir
The specified directory will be searched AFTER the directories in LD_LIBRARY_PATH
.TP
--soname=soname
Specify ELF shared object file name
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following error values are returned:
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B 0
Successful completion.
.TP
.B >0
Unsuccessful completion; an error occured.
.PD
.SH COPYRIGHT
.TP
Copyright (c) 2012, Texas Instruments, Inc.
